# Tutorial on learning with structured biological data

Ontologies have long provided a core foundation in the organization of
biomedical entities, their attributes, and their relationships. With
over 500 biomedical ontologies currently available there are a number of
new and exciting new opportunities emerging in using ontologies for
large scale data sharing and data analysis. Additionally, life sciences
have adopted Semantic Web technologies for organizing large parts of
their infrastructure with most major databases being available in
Semantic Web formats and using ontologies for annotation. It is now a
challenge to use this structured information in data analysis and to
build predictive models. Recently, several methods have become available
that apply representation learning to knowledge graphs and which can be
used to predict biological relations, determine similarity between
biological entities, and provide features for machine learning
applications.

This tutorial will introduce recent methods for learning with structured
biological data, focusing mainly on knowledge graph embeddings. We will
explore several applications of these embeddings in protein function
prediction, drug repurposing, prediction of gene-disease association,
and information retrieval from databases. The tutorial will include a
significant hands-on component and focus on skills that can be applied
to a large number of biological problems.


# Target audience

The tutorial will be of interest to computational researchers use
machine learning with features from structured data in computational
biology. Structured data includes ontologies, knowledge graphs, and
biological networks (including similarity-based networks). The
tutorial will be at an intermediate to advanced level and will include
a hands-on component; some familiarity with either Python or Java
(ideally both) is required.

# Prerequistes

Software requirements: all participants need to bring their own laptop,
install Jupyter Notebook (http://jupyter.org/) and the SciJava kernel
(https://github.com/scijava/scijava-jupyter-kernel).
